---
title: Engines
order: 30
---

# Engines

## Simple engine

This was the first engine to be written, and is, pretty simple. It executes
processes as child processes of the generic-worker process, under the same user
account that the generic-worker process runs as. Note, this means that anything
that the worker has access to, the tasks will also have access to.

This is therefore a pretty insecure engine (tasks can read generic-worker
config file and thus access taskcluster credentials for claiming work from the
Queue).

Also it is impossible for the worker to guarantee a clean task environment
between task runs, since any task can potentially soil the environment by
changing user settings or for example, leaving files around.

## Multiuser engine

This was the next engine to be written, and solves the problem of task
isolation by creating unique OS user accounts for each task that is to be run.
Each task user account (by default) is unprivileged, much like a guest user
account. Once the task has completed, the task user account is purged, and
there should be no further trace of the task on the system. The task user does
not have permission to alter system-wide settings, so after the user account is
purged, the host environment should be restored to a pristine state.

Since the generic-worker process runs under a different user account to the
task processes, taskcluster credentials, signing keys, and other private matter
can be protected from task access. Note, it is the responsibility of the host
owner to lock down resources as necessary, to ensure that an unprivleged
account does not have access to anything private on the machine.

Since tasks run on the host of the worker (without any container technology or
virtualisation technology), toolchains that need to be installed as an
Administrator typically need to be installed on the host environment.
Toolchains that do not require Administrator privileges to be installed can be
installed as task steps.

## Docker engine

Work has started to provide a docker engine, that allows tasks to be executed
in the context of a docker container running on the host system. This has
similar benefits as the multiuser engine (task isolation, protection of host
secrets) but additionally has the advantage that the target execution
environment can be defined in a docker image, varying significantly from the
host environment. This makes it possible to have arbitrary toolchains available
to a task, without needing to roll new host environments, and also allows tasks
to run task steps as the root user, without impacting the security of the host
environment.

At the moment there is only elementary support for running tasks inside a
docker container, and this should not be used in production. The features are
being implemented in [bug 1499055](https://bugzil.la/1499055).
